---
title: "5-11-2020"
date: 2020-05-11T18:27:05-06:00
draft: false
---

Today is Monday the 11th. I had a somewhat rough weekend as I didn't accomplish as much as I wanted to but I was able to get my garden planted which is a big weight off of my shoulders. Yesterday was mothers day and I took Vivian, Holley, and Sonya out to a mother's day dinner. Although I spent a lot more money than I would have liked to, I am glad that we did and I think Vivian was even happier, which justifies the dinner to me. 

Today I have been thinking quite a bit about our personal finances and what long term goals that we want to make. One of the conundrums that I am dealing with is that I am not sure how much money I should put towards long term investments (stock/bonds asset allocation investment portfolio) as opposed to short term savings goals (mostly just saving for a down payment on a house). This is a struggle because the earlier I can begin investing money into the market I get an exponential return on the initial investment, whereas both me and Vivian would love to start building a foundation both in terms of a physical and emotional standpoint when it comes to establishing our family. I guess the question is how much money do I want to spend right now while we are young as opposed to saving more money now and spending it when we are older. I want to say that I would like to spend the money while we are young as that is the better time to enjoy life, but saving more right now would allow us to retire and get out of the rat race earlier.

Another thing that I have been thinking is that going the traditional route of investing in a retirement account is the most secure way to find financial security and independence, but not necessarily the only way. It is entirely possible that we could start building passive income streams through side gigs or even full fledged businesses and use this as a way to drastically increase not only our income but our net worth. The nature of money is that it is exponential so the more than we can earn and save in the beginning the better. There are a number of different ways that we could start bringing in side (and/or passive) income. The question is, is it worth it to invest the time in them and what is the risk of them not working out? 

Talking about this made me realize something about the blog that I need to address. There are several topics and ideas that I play around with both in my head and here on the blog but I never actually write down what they are in an organized way. I would like to start a ideas post where I list all of the subjects that I would like to write about. This will consitute actual blog posts that I may publish if I can put the time into them. [Here]({{<ref "/post/blog-ideas.md" >}}) is the link to the post. 

Last Friday I wrote a little bit about writing itself and how I was doing. I did do better last week that I have done before but did not do as well as I wanted to. I am going to stick with the Momentum iOS app for tracking. One thing that I need to remember to do is not forget any of the days that I do actually write, which happened last week. I have historically been too hard on myself, so I am going to count even the shortest sentence as a valid blog/journal entry. 

There are several other things that have been on my mind but I can't recall them as of now. I am going to sign off until tomorrow. 