---
title: "5-17-2020"
date: 2020-05-17T19:52:47Z
draft: false
---

Given that it is a Sunday and that I should have a fair amount of free time I would like to do some significant writing today. This writing is actually taking place on my iPad and not my computer. Tomorrow (Monday) is my first day working at Salesforce and they sent me my home computer. It came with a multi-device keyboard and mouse that makes it easy to switch between my computer and my iPad. The keyboard also comes with a built in stand that will hold my iPad for easy use. This makes it possible to portably move around with a comfortable keyboard without having to move my laptop.  

I was able to get a VSCode server set up on a Glcoud vm compute instance that allows me to connect to a vscode instance from any brower. This means that I am able to write in the main repository for the blog on my iPad as well. Not sure why I nerded out about this so hard but it was a fun little project to get set up.  

It's a Sunday today and I want to get as much writing done on Sunday's as possible. Today we made a delightful breakfast consisting of almond flour waffles, eggs, and fruit. AFter that I somewhat forced Holley and Vivian to have a "sunday" school, and we sat together to read and listen to a rendition of Emerson's self-reliance essay on Youtube. That essay changed my life the first time that I read it and going back through it opened my eyes to a lot of realizations that I have had before but have since forgotten. 

Reading it today I gained an experiential understanding of the essence of the message that Emerson is trying to get across. Even though I've read many of the words and sentences multiple times they still have a profound impact every time I go back through it. Going through it again brought me back to the struggles in my life that I was facing the first time that I read it and reminded me of what his message helped me get through. That fundamental message is one of trust and faith over anxiety and doubt. 

As of late I have been so caught up in a negative self-talk feedback loop wherein I tell myself that what I think and do is not sufficient (according to whose standards I don't know) and that I need to change. I often will change something that I don't like about my current situation but the change is motivated through fear and axiety rather than hope and enthusiasm. It will only be a matter of time before I lose the progress that I have been making (as has been the case with the piano) and then become even more discouraged because I am failing to be consistent with my habits. I'll often fall into moments where I not thinking or caring at all and will engage in activities that, while they are nice to get me out of my own head, don't bring meaning or any forward progress to the overarching goals that I have in my life at the moment. This is the fundamental source of the feedback loop, as it causes me to have more fear and axiety about where I am. I feel the need to change which I do, lose my consistency, and then the process restarts. 

The heart of the problem is that I don't have a fundamental trust in myself and the path that I am taking. I am constantly questioning not only the path in life that I am taking but the fact of a path in life at all. I slowly devolve into life without meaning which is accompanied with the desire and struggle to survive and stay as happy as I can. This attitude has certainly helped me move past some hard times and I would say that my life now is better than it ever has been before. However, the problem of personal accomplishment, purpose, and meaning is void. It is getting worse day by day. 

I think the reason this is is because for my entire life I relied on my religion to provide me with meaning. The meaning was spoonfed into my infant mouth, and not sought out as my own journey. As is the case for everyone in a similar situation (and most of the people that I know from centennial are in this situation), life reaches a point where the choices that are made are not sustainable. Either a fundamental shift in decision making has to happen, or the knawing voice in the back of the head is numbed out through something good like family relationships and community, or something bad like substance abuse or toxic relationships. I hit a point where I went through one of these fundamental shifts where I realized that my life was not my own, and ever since I have been working to discover what it means to have such a life. 

This has been incredibly difficult because of the environment that I grew up in and how it has been burned into my psychology. Fundamental Mormomism, and probably every other fundamental religion, is an all encompassing all knowing system. It covers every single aspect of life and if anything deviates from it at all it is considered to be from an evil source that will bring upon damnation rather than salvation. I guess that this is necessarily a bad system if the system is purely focused on the truth and goodness (whatever they might be defined to be). I doubt whether it is even possible to have such a system, especially when there is such a strong hierarchical power structure that gives a massive amount of control to just a few people. In my estimation humans are too flawed for a such a strong central authority to be good for the whole of its constituents. Because the all encompassing and all knowing system is strongly administered by just a few people, it doesn't leave enough room for freedom of person thought, intellect, and faith.  

This constant reliance that I have had throughout most of my life on what another person says or thinks has fundamentally governed the way that I think about my own self. Perhaps this is why Emerson's essay is so impactful to me every time I read it – self-reliance feels like freedome where it hasn't existed at all before. Becoming self-reliant has been completely new territory for me, and as such brings along with all of the chaos that the unkown carries; fear of change, pain in the admittance of failure, being overwhelmed by the knowledge of new things. It is *uncomfortable* to believe in yourself. Relying on others not only provides comfort but ease in the adoption of responsibility. I certainly wouldn't like to become sole self-reliant and not willing to trust or let other people into my life, but hardly having any self-reliance (or self-trust) is not a fun place to be in.  

I think this issue for me explains many of the reaons for the general fear and existential dread that I have been experiencing for the past few months. Not only do I not trust the decision that I have made in the past, I have a hard time trusting in my capacity to make decisions in the future. This is not an easy concept to ponder with. It has made the basis of my self-talk exist as doubt and fear as opposed to hope and faith. It has made me doubt whether or not my choice to move away from home and my community is the right place in my life right now and whether or not I should comfortably move back into the town that would accept me with open arms. At the same time I know that if I go back to that way of life I will end up in the same situation that brought me the most pain I have ever experienced; that the warm hug of my community and religion had been hiding me from myself and who I truly was. This has left me with a conundrum that I haven't know how to fix. I think that the correct way forward to is make a conscious decision to fundamentally trust in my capacity to live.  

This means that I need not be afraid of spirituatlity and relgion anymore. That I also need not be afraid of holding religion and sprituatlity reponsible for the undo suffering that they cause to me and others. I can still exist as a vessel for God, Truth and Light while at the same time doubting all claims of knowledge if they don't have any scientific backing. I can live the Gospel of Jesus Christ without going to church. I can "magnify my priesthood" without sacrificing my identity to my community. Why is it that I can do all of this? Because these are the thoughts that have been plaguing my mind for years. They didn't come from someone else or someplace else. They originated in me (perhaps they originated from God and were given to me), and therefore they are right. They are genius because they are original. They are true because they fundamentally exist. I am ready to live, to learn, and to pursue the truth. Most of all, I am ready to trust myself, and let me whole body vibrate to the iron string that is my soul. 