---
title: "5-19-2020"
date: 2020-05-20T03:02:25Z
draft: false
---
It's a Tuesday evening right now. I just started my internship with Salesforce yesterday and have been working on getting accimated with their systems. It's been a hectic few days as my eating and excersize habits have degraded a bit. I also forgot to do some important things related to research which I am not too happy about. I think that all of this was to be expected given that starting a new job is a big change to go through and I knew that it would throw off my routine in a major way. I wanted to pop in here to discuss some of these changes and how that I am somewhat integrated with my job I think that it's worth it. 

The first thing that I want to do is list out of the different initiatives that I have going for me right now in relation to work and school. They are 

1. Salesforce (full-time)
2. Research
3. SunHomes.io (part-time)
4. Side-gigs and/or passive-income projects

Theres a good chance that I won't be able to accomplish every thing that I want to in every aspect. It's hard to know where I fail however if I don't list out some of my goals. I am going to do that by section 

### 1 Salesforce
This should't warrant that many explicit goals because they will reveal themselves as the intership progresses. Many of these goals I am going to be outlining in the next week or so. One thing that I want to put here is this 
* Be good enough in the internship that I get a return offer 

### 2 Research
I'd like to list out the things that I need to accomplish here, as I have already defined what some of my goals are and there are strict deadlines for what they need to be. Here are the things that I need to do on a weekly basis
* Meet with Vivek
* Work on the background presentation
* Start outlining the thesis proposal
* Read and annotate 3 papers a week 

### 3 SunHomes.io
This is not as important as the others. I did get on a call with Alan the other day and we agreed that we would all sit down at the same time of the week to work so that we could have the communication that we need together. The agreement for right now as to do Monday and Thursday evenings from 6-9, and Saturday from 2-5. I think that if I can stick to these times as well as I can that I should take care of most of what I need to in regards to this 

### 4 Sidegigs
This is something that I have no idea how it will work out. What I really need to do is right an entire blog post brainstorming ideas for how this could work. I'll add that to my blog ideas post and leave this for now. 

In relation to all of this I need to start thinking about how my diet and exercise routines are going to play into everything else that I have going on. I think that it is possible to accomplish everything that I have listed so far for this summer while still staying healthy. To do that, I am going to have to stay on top of my A game. It's more likely that I won't, but it never hurts to outline what it will look like. 

Here are some of the daily habits and routines that I would like to adopt over the summer
* Intermittent fasting
    * I have tried a 20/4 window in the past but it hasn't worked recently. It's important that I stop eating before I go to bed so I think I am going to move the time that I start eating a little bit earlier. It's probably also more realistic to do something like a 18/6 window. So for now I'll plan on eating from 2:00-8:00. I'll need to start recording this in my phone app again so that I can stay more accountable. 
* Exercise
    * I have been doing running with bodyweight exercise 3 times a week and have told myself that I need to do yoga twice a week. The yoga hasn't been happening at all, and the other exercise has tapered off recently. Now that I have started my intership at Salesforce I can start to take advantage of their health and welness stipend. This is probably going to include purchasing kettlebells and finding a program to follow. I'll add this to my TODO list for Salesforce this week. 
* Music
    * I have pretty much stopped playing the piano and I would like to pick it back up again. I don't know if it's realistic to play every day but I think that I can at least a few times a week. 
* Reading
    * I spend a ridiculous amount of time on my phone and social media. I would like to replace some of this time with reading. I need to finish The Sun Also Rises on Kindle. After that I think I would like to start War and Peace with the physical book. This is ambitious, but I would like to give it a try. 

I am going to update my Google calendar with an ideal sample day that tries to incorporate all of these habits. Every time I do this I never stick to it, but it always helps me to get things just a little bit more organized. Here is a sample day 

* 7 - 7:30: Shower
* 7:30 - 3:30: Work 
* 3:30 - 4:30: Workout
* 4:30 - 5:30: Dinner
* 5:30 - 7:30: Research/SunHomes
* 7:30 - 8:30: Piano
* 8:30 - 9:30: Reading/writing
* 10:00pm: Asleep

Writing all of these thoughts out has helped immensely with some of the axiety that I have been feeling. It's surprising to me how much writing can help get rid of the swarm of thoughts inside of my head. 