---
title: "5-21-2020"
date: 2020-05-21T20:47:49-06:00
draft: false
---

Today has been a relatively good day. It's a thursday and the garbages are emptied Friday morning so I mowed the lawn. This is to prevent the grass clippings taking up too much space in the dumpster over the week. Besides that I spent a good amount of time working and am making some good progress on my internship. There are a few things that I would like to talk about in regards to my internship that have been on my mind. 

### Internship so far
The project that I am completing for my internship invovles creating a sample application that makes use of an already existent api. This is extremely disappointing to me as I am very much sick of developing front end applications and don't feel that I will learn that much from the internship. As I delve into the codebase a little more I am starting to realize that this may not be the case, but nonetheless, I am still upset. 

I will have the opportunity to learn more about how javascript frameworks work because Salesforce has developed their own framework that makes use of vanilla web components. It also makes use of graphql which is a technology that I have wanted to learn for a while so I am excited to dive into it a little bit. 

I have spent a good amount of time getting the Java based microservice set up for testing against. This has been fun as I have never worked with a Java system before so it has been a challenge to get everything set up. I do have to say that the service does seem like it still holds on to old standards and is a little bit bloated, but it does make use of Docker containers and is lightweight enough that it shouldn't be too much of a pain. 

Given all of that, I think that overall I am still disappointed with the project. I think that this is a good experience for me because it is showing me the reality of what my actual skill is and how a company like Salesforce values my skillset. AS far as I see it, I have a lot to prove. I have made a mental goal for the summer to widely exceed the expectations of my team and build the application product that they want in enough of an advance that I can begin to actually work on the API. I don't know if this is going to happen but if it can I will be happy with the internship. I feel that I am pigeon holing myself into projects solely based on my past experience. This is giving me even more drive to better learn different technologies and move away from application development and more towards system engineering, data engineering, and data science. All of these are highly specialized fields and so I think that it is going to take a considerable amount of work for me to get the point where I can get a position that deals exclusively in these roles. 

It is often said that kids coming out of college truly don't know that much and that there is still a ton to learn. I am only now realizing how true this is turning out to be. I used to think that I was set and knew all that I needed to to be highly successful coming out of school. The reality is that I focused a little bit too much on my academics and not enough on experience and that there is a lot missing in my skill level right now. I'm hoping that I can prove to both Salesforce and myself that I am capable of high productivy in any system and that I deserve a position with more prestige. 

### Research
I am getting concerned with the status of my research project. I missed my meeting with Vivek this week and haven't put near the amount of time that I needed to to make progress. This is partly due to the fact that starting the new job this week really through a cork into my routine, but also from the fact that I am just being lazy. I am starting to realize that it is becoming more and more unacceptable for me to waste time and spend it unitentionally. This means unintentional tv watching, social media, and even doing something like eating food. Now that I have started my job and I know what my routine is going to be like I think that I can really start to hunker down and focus on taking care of everything that I need to to make this a successful summer. 

### Updated Routine
I think that my routine needs some work and I would like to outline that hear. Given that I am following a more traditional 9-5 schedule I don't think that it is working to work out in the evenings. One other thing that I forgot to mention is that my sleeping habits are horrible and that I would really like to improve that. It's not so much what time I go to bed but what time I am waking up. There are a few ways that I hope to improve my sleep, and they are related to my new routine. This is the routine updated 

* 7-7:15 -> wake up 
* 7:15 - 8:15 -> exercise
* 8:15 -> 8:30 -> Shower 
* 8:30 -> 2:00 -> work (5 1/2 hours)
* 2:00 -> 2:30 -> lunch 
* 2:30 -> 6 -> work (3 1/2 hours)
* 6 - 7 -> Dinner 
* 7 - 7:30 -> Writing 
* 7:30 - 9:30 -> Research
* 9:30 -> 10:00 -> Reading/Piano 
* 10:00 -> Go to bed

I moved my eating period much earlier to ensure that I am not eating before I go to bed. This should improve the sleep that I am getting and the fact that I am giving myself a 9 hour window for sleep should ensure that I actually am sleeping for at least 8 hours as opposed to trying to fall asleep.  

I also moved my workout to the morning. I think that this is going to work better because I was traditionally working out towards the evening. Given how things have been going with work lately , the hours from 3:30-6 seem to be my most productive hours and when I can get the most out of communication with my team members. It is going to be damn hard to start working out in the mornings, as I am so used to going straight to the shower. I am going to experiment with this for a bit and see how it goes. 

I have yet to put a good system in place to track all of these habits together. I would like to ideally do it on the blog but it is not a guarantee that I will the blog every day so I'm not sure if that is the best thing to do. There are several ideas that I have had of tools that I could build myself to help keep me more accountable but I am not sure if they are worth the time. I am going to add that the list of ideas for blog posts. 

### Final Thoughts
I am much happier with this routine and am excited to see how things play out. Hopefully I can keep my focus and not go back on my word as I have done so many times in the past. Writing has certainly helped me to improve on that. 
