---
title: "5-28-2020"
date: 2020-05-29T03:41:29Z
draft: false
---

It's been a while since I've gone to the journal. I feel as if there is a lot that has happened in the last few days although I am not sure if that is true. One thing that I can say is that I have been in a big funk. I have not been exercising at all, my dieting/fasting is starting to go down the window, and in general I am starting to feel less and less on top of my game. This happens to me often and so I shouldn't think of it as something to be necessarily feared. What I think that I do need to do in circumanstaces like this is to ask myself what it is that the dark moments that I so often find myself in are trying to teach me. 

I just started Joseph Campbell's book "The Hero With A Thousand Faces" and one of the things that is sticking out to me is the fact that I am not alone in my journey. I think one of the reasons that I can get so depressed and down on myself sometimes is becuase I feel as if I am isolated from the rest of the world and that no one understands my plight. In some sense I think that the isolation itself lends to cyclic nature of my being, and it brings with both positives and negatives. The negative of course is that it just hurts in general. The positive is probably not so obvious but probably more important. 

The positive nature of the isolation and sullen mood comes from the fact that it's almost a given that every time I go down the rabbit hole I won't come out of it until I come some profound truth or realization. This is maybe the reason that I actually prefer to stay alone and why it is that I so often enter these states of existential questioning. I think that subconsciously, I desire them so that I can answer the questions that are always underiding both my conscious and un-conscious brain. 

What these question are I think is a subject for another time, but what is more important to me right now is the fact that I seem to find a decent answer to one (or many)  of these plaguing questions when I seem to need it the most. Where this answer comes from I am not exactly sure, but I think that Joseph Campbell (or Jordan Peterson) would describe it as a journey to the underworld and redemption after the journey. In Campbell's book he describes the hero's journey as a highly significant almost cosmic event that takes place and changes the world, but I am starting to realize that I go on mini hero journeys often. The reason that I go on these journeys (or rabbit holes as I have referred to them at other times) is probably because I am ignorning the actual call to the journey that I need to face.

I think that this call has manifested in many ways for me. Sometimes I have answered the call and at other times I have not. The best example of me answering the call was going to college and pursuing my education. I want to say that getting married and having a child was answering the call and it was, but in a way it is not the same. I think that this has to do with the fact that these were decisions that heavily involved other people and were not soley original to me. It is starting to hit me now that that is the reason why I feel the call to go do something different, is because I didn't "choose" much of my life as it exists today. 

I have actually thought about the rejection of the call to the journey before and have come up with calls that I know are there but that I am rejecting. I'm going to list out the first few that come to mind. 
1. Going to graduate school
2. Moving to another state for work
3. Moving/travelling to europe (or a different country)
4. Starting this blog
5. Starting a podcast
6. Working full time for a startup
7. Starting a Youtube channel for music
8. Starting Brazilian Jiu-Jitzsu
9. Starting a business and working for passive income/ early retirement. 

These are all things that I often think about as things that I want to do but that I never actually fulfill on. Some of them I have, such as starting the blog (although I never actually started it and it is turning more into a personal journal than anything else). I recently started to get into music but that hasn't turned out well in the last few months. Other things I haven't even dipped my foot in the water, like travelling. I really thought about graduate school for a long time and ultimately made the decision to not do it. That decision was based on my commitment to my family and my relationships, and not necessarily based on what it is that I thought would be best for my education and career. 

While I write all of those out I am realizing that in my current state and trajectory I am most likely not going to answer most of those calls. The reasons for this are probably plenty, but the first thing that comes to mind (and I might be using this just because it's an easy excuse), is that I have a wife a daughter. Vivian has been so stressed working lately and it is also really starting to have an impact on me. I absolutley do not want to be the type of father that abandons his own or leaves his wife to support the family, but as time goes and she continues to give herself to her work it is messing with my psychy. I do not feel the need to carry the load like I should, and the main reason is because I am no carrying the load and don't have to. This is causing our entire family a lot of stress. 

We often have the conversation of when Vivian is going to quit and when I am going to get a full time job so that she can stay at home with Sonya and start to prepare the family for another kid. We have said that this is going to happen in September now that we have Holley living with us to help with Sonya, but for some reason that feels so far away. I think that all of us are starting to feel disconnected from each other and this is a big reason why. I don't even know what to do about it because Vivian's job is so taxing and she can't seem to get away from it no matter how hard she try's. 

I think that all of these thoughts are leaving me with a dichotomy in my head of why I might be in such a weird place. On the one hand, there is so much that I still want to do with my education, career, and personal life and development. On the other, I have a family that I am not going to leave and am going to do everything that I can to make sure that they are taken care of and have what they need. Right now I am stuck at a weird place in the middle where I am not the sole provider so I don't find the fulfillment that I need in taking care of the family. Given that I don't fill the responsibility to be the provider for the family I have a lot of headspace to explore my own personal desires and journeys, but I am not giving my all to them because I know in my heart that the right place for me to be is in taking care of my family. 

This weird limbo is making me realize that I probably wasn't ready to have a baby. There is still so much that I wanted to do and so many places that I wanted to visit, both physically and psychology. I felt the need to have a baby due to my biology and the fact that Vivian was basically begging me to do it. It was almost an attack on my manhood and I gave in. I don't regret it in the least bit and Sonya is the absolute light of my life. I know that it was the right decision. However, I can't ignore the fact that I simply wasn't ready. 

I am not sure what to do about all of this. I know that at the end of the tunnel there is redemption to be found, but right now I am not seeing it. I've got to have some tough conversation with Vivian, and with myself. Hopefully I can pull through with the redemption that I need. 