---
title: "6-22-2020"
date: 2020-06-22T20:10:52-06:00
draft: false
---
Haven't touched the blog for a long time. I have had a really interesting past few weeks. Things have really started to go south during the quarantine and by working from home. I am not sure how things got to where they are but all I know is that my life is very weird at the moment. I probably won't talk about that too much because I have a lot to do, but it's currently where my headspace is at. 

I mostly wanted to get back on the blog to talk a little about where things sit with me as far as research goes. I think that I royally fucked myself over. I have a thesis proposal document due in a week and I haven't even started on it. I really need to take some time this week and just focus on doing the research that I need and on writing this paper. I did have a meeting last week with Vivek and we talked a good deal about what the proposal document should look like. I am really glad that he took the time to do that with me because it really helped flesh exactly what is is that I need to do to get the paper ready. I took some notes from the meeting which was basically outlining the paper. He also sent me a sample paper which should really help with the organization and planning of the document. One thing that I need to keep in mind is that the paper does not need to be long. 5 pages should be plenty to convey the main ideas that I want to get across. 

I think that to begin with I need to start outlining to document by main section and by subsection. Doing this should give help to me identify the highest priority work items that I need to accomplish over the next few days to get the document ready. There are really two main tasks that are in front of me. One is to do further research and come up with a good mental map of what the work of the thesis is going to be (mostly identifying the data that I am going to be working with). The second is going to be to write the paper and flesh out all of my ideas. I really am behind and I'll want a good amount of time to go over the document with Vivek, so I need to get a first draft as soon as possible. 

With this I think that I have a good idea of what the next steps are. This mostly includes starting the outline of the paper. Once I have that done I'll know what to do. 

UPDATE: After a quick attempt at the outline I realized that there are too many holes that I need to fill before I get a specific outline. I really need to start exploring datasets and determine what type of data I am going to use. 