---
title: "6-24-2020"
date: 2020-06-24T18:53:07-06:00
draft: false
---
I made some really good progress on my research yesterday. I stumbled across [this](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C45&q=VirtuosoNet%3A+A+HIERARCHICAL+RNN-BASED+SYSTEM+FOR+MODELING+EXPRESSIVE+PIANO+PERFORMANCE&btnG=) paper yesterday which proposes an expressive performance rendering system that is built with a hierarchical RNN. On top of that, it also proposes a new dataset that uses the MIDI from the performances of the Yamaha Piano E-Competition data with corresponding MusicXML scores for each performance. The magnitude of the data is about 10x that of the magaloff corpus and gives data from other composes than just Chopin. 

This paper could not make me happier. It is heading in exactly the direction that I want to go with the thesis and I think that it will prove to be the basis for most of the research that I do. Not only do they provide the paper but they also give all of the data processing and model development code (in PyTorch) in a [Github repo](https://github.com/jdasam/virtuosoNet). As I said, this research and paper could not make me happier as it provides the perfect starting point for where I want to go. 

The question then becomes what the next steps to take are. I have a thesis proposal that is due on Monday and I haven't even started writing it. I tried to create a crude outline but didn't have that much success given that I haven't  been sure what exact research that I will be doing. I am not sure if I shoulld just dive right into to writing or if I should put some more thought into what the experiment is going to be. I am really not sure how I can take the work proposed in this paper and create a thesis out of it. My initial thought is that it would involve using the same data set and features but improving upon the model using self-attention based methods. This would include a comparison with the other models developed and proposed in the papers and a ranking according to the same metrics that the paper used. Related to this could also be more data gathering and feature engineering/learning to see if there is more data that could be pulled from the dataset. This would probably be more problematic as I would have to get access to the actual MIDI files that were gathered and that may include having to get in contact with the author of the paper.  

I am doubting whether or not I will be able to make any significant improvement on the model that already exists. If I cannot then it seems like most of my efforts with the thesis will be futile. This is something that I need to explore further. In the case that I determine that I cannot make any significant model improvements, it would be useful to think about alternative ideas for the thesis and different directionst that I could take it. One of these could be applying similar methods from this paper to the MAESTRO dataset and attempting to gather and create an auxilliary dataset that includes the MusicXML scores for every piece performed. Then I could apply the same data processing and same model on this dataset to see what the results are. This may also bring it a number of problems such as accurately curating the new data and making sure that there is as little noise as possible. If I was able to create this dataset however, I think that there could be a huge amount of potential in further work given the popularity of the MAESTRO dataset and the Magenta project. 

Having said all of this, I think that I need to sit down to the drawing board again and revisit the outline of the proposal paper. Once I feel that I have a more solid outline I think that I will begin writing the first part of the paper which includes material that I am familiar with and can build momentum from. If I get a bulk of the draft writing done for the first sections tonight I can talk to Vivek tomorrow about possibilities for model development. That should give me what I need to finish the writing tomorrow and after that it will be refining it. Think I have a good idea of what to do from here on out
