---
title: "6-9-2020"
date: 2020-06-09T18:37:50-06:00
draft: false
---

It's been quite a while since I took to the blog. The last few weeks have been extremely rough for me. I don't want to harp on why or how so much as what I want to do going forward.

One of the things that I have realized lately is that I really do go through bad cycles of moods and discipline. I don't know if this is normal or not but I am starting to wonder if I have some sort of mental health issue. I don't mean to say this because I would like to claim to be a victim, but only because I want to best understand what it is that I can do about the situation. If it is the case that I do have something like that then I wonder if it would make sense for me to see a counselor. However, I don't want to get too caught up on this and try the best that I can to keep moving forward and make progress. 

I woke up today feeling really good and have mostly been able to keep my mood up for the entirety of the day. I think that what I want to do is take this opportunity to give myself a kind of reset to help with all of the endevors that I have been pursuing and hopefully sort out what it is exactly that I want to do and how I think I can do it. One thing that is clear to me is that I aim to high and plan too big. I am not patient enough with myself and so I lose my consistency. I like to make things really hard, so this time around I think I want to make my goal setting and framework of thinking as realistic as possible. This isn't because I want it to limit me in what I can accomplish, but it's mostly as a way to actually get me doing something, given that I shut down when I become overwhelmed. 

One of the things that I want to do is clearly define what my priorities are, and not list so many things that I can't keep track of it. I've been doing some thinking today and I think that I have identified that my number priority (outside of work) is my research. The second outside of that (although it is related) is pursuing my musical hobby. After that comes exercise and diet, startup work for Allan, writing and blog, reading, and then yardwork. There is one thing that I want to make clear to myself

### It is ok if I don't achieve the goals that I set. I don't have to try to assassinate myself because I'm not making the progress that I think I should. Progress is progress, and the most important thing is to keep moving forward

With that being said, I think that there are things that I can do to 'hack' my productivity in a sense, but the #1 thing that I would like to remember is to focus on keeping myself somewhat upbeat in my mood and attitude. If I can work through the failures without letting them drag me down so much, that in and of itself will be a huge boost to the potential exponential gains that I am missing out on. 

Instead of sitting here and writing too much, I think I am going to go play the piano for a bit (with some more focus on drills), and then for the rest of the night focus on my research. It's so easy for me to caught up in my head about what I should or shouldn't be doing, that I lose the focus to actually go do the things I want to do. It's been a good day. I'm grateful to be alive and to have opportunity to achieve and to grow. I will inevitably hit another struggle like I have been in recently, but the most important thing is that I get through it to keep on trying. 